# StringEvolution

This is a program that evolves random populations of strings over time to match
a target string that is given to the program.

The program starts with a population of a certain size. The population is
comprised of random strings called chromosomes which, by default, have random
widths as well. Each generation the chromosomes are ranked by their fitness
(their likeness to the target string). The best automatically move on to the
next genration and the rest of the population are generated by mutating and
crossing over other chromosomes chosen at random.

Here is an example run of the program to see that process visually:

    $ ./stringevolution -wq "foobar"
    rGabv[
    Ioj;cU
    |;rba>
    hooa4
    f2o#br
    f2o#br
    f2o#1r
    ooBsr
    fCob~r
    fo3ba>
    fCob~r
    f:obar
    f:obar
    f:obar
    fooEar
    foobar

## How do I use this program?

The program has defaults which are hardcoded so one can start the program 
simply with just `./stringevolution <string>` and see output. Larger strings 
may require twiddling the configuration options.

The program uses a simple evolutionary algorithm so the configuration options
are fairly simple.
The flags can be chained together if they do not require arguments. And can be
chained together with a single flag that requires arguments if the last flag is
the one that requires arguments.

    Usage: ./stringevolution [OPTIONS] <target-string>
    OPTIONS:
      -e [0.0 - 1.0]
        The elitism threshold for the population. This percent of
        the population are automatically added to next generaiton.
    
      -t [0.0 - 1.0]
        The cull threshold. The percentage of the population you
        would like to keep between generations, e.g. 0.6 keeps the
        best 60% of the population.
    
      -m [0.0 - 1.0]
        The rate at which chromosomes are mutated.
    
      -c [0.0 - 1.0]
        The rate at which chromosomes are crossed-over.
    
      -p <number>
        The population or number of chromosomes each generation.

      -l <number>
        Limit number of generations evolved to the number given.
    
      -q
        Quiet the output. Just output the best of each generation.
    
      -w
        Create all chromosomes with the same width as target string.
